- [Instructor] In the last video,
we saw how a user could provide their username and password
to be authenticated with the authentication manager
and a user detail service.
But how was that password verified?
The password let me in was not stored in the database.
Instead, there was a long nonsensical string in data.sql.
That long string is actually a hashed value
created by the Spring BCrypt algorithm.
The authentication manager requires a password encoder bean
in order to encode the plain text password
and then compares it to the previously encoded value
in the database.
I'm repeating a pattern from the Spring Security course
by initializing it to 12.
Now, how about creating a new user and encode the password?
There's a new method in UserService that does just that.
In this sign up method,
it creates a new user with the CSR role
as long as the username does not already exist.
Now, let's run this method from an integration test.
So, I have a UserServiceIntegrationTest
and we will run this in debug mode.
It's a Spring Boot test
so it will run the Spring Boot container within this test.
And what we're going to do is it's going to actually,
let me make this bigger here,
it will actually invoke the sign up method on the service
passing in a dummy username, a dummy password,
a first name John and a last name of Doe.
And then we assert that the password is not dummy password.
It will be an encrypted password.
So, I'm gonna run this
and then we'll look in the console
for the actually encoded password.
So, there's the encoded password
that will actually be stored in the database,
not dummy password.